
A Decorator pattern can be used to attach additional responsibilities to an object either statically or dynamically.
A Decorator provides an enhanced interface to the original object.

In the implementation of this pattern, we prefer composition over an inheritance – so that we can reduce the overhead
of subclassing again and again for each decorating element.
The recursion involved with this design can be used to decorate our object as many times as we require.

Attach additional responsibilities to an object dynamically. Decorators provide a flexible alternative to sub classing
for extending functionality. - GOF Design Pattern

Dinesh Rajput. Spring 5 Design Patterns (Kindle Locations 2018-2019). Packt.

In software engineering, the common intent of all GOF structural patterns is to simplify the complex relationship
between objects and classes in a flexible enterprise application. The decorator pattern is a special type of design
pattern among these that comes under the structural design pattern, which allows you to add and remove behaviors for
an individual object at runtime dynamically or statically, without changing the existing behavior of other associated
objects from the same class. This design pattern does this without violating the Single Responsibility
Principle or the SOLID principle of object-oriented programming.

This design pattern uses the compositions over the inheritance for objects associations; it allows you to divide
the functionality into different concrete classes with a unique area of concern.

Dinesh Rajput. Spring 5 Design Patterns (Kindle Locations 2020-2026). Packt.

Common problems solved by the Decorator pattern In an enterprise application, there is a business requirement
or there might be a future plan to extend the behavior of the product by adding new functionalities.
To achieve this, you could use inheritance to extend the behavior of an object. But inheritance should
be done at compile time and methods are also available for other instances of that class.
Because of the code modification, there is a violation of the Open Closed Principle.
To avoid this violation of the SOLID principle, you can attach new responsibility to an object dynamically.
This is the situation where the decorator design pattern comes into the picture and addresses this issue
in a very flexible way.

Dinesh Rajput. Spring 5 Design Patterns (Kindle Locations 2032-2037). Packt.